since 2019 I've written well over a
million words of YouTube scripts and you
know what I still find making videos
hard but over that time I've discovered
some unconventional growth tricks that I
really wish I'd known sooner because
they unstick you when you're feeling
stuck and they enable you to just get
that video made and posted to prove the
power of this first one which is
probably the ultimate YouTube
productivity hack what I'm going to do
is set a timer for 2 hours and write a
script and then when that timer ends no
matter what state this is in I'm going
to film it I'm going to edit it and then
I'm going to upload it to this Channel
and at the end I'll reveal it to you
even if it's not finished which is going
to be interesting cuz sometimes my
scripts can take 8 to 9 hours to write
but I feel like showing you this
productivity hack in action will allow
you to judge whether or not it's
effective or not okay so let me explain
how this productivity hack works so you
can use it to Save hours way back some
dude came up with this idea that if you
give yourself a long time to complete a
task it will take you that long but if
you reduce your time half it even give
yourself a quarter of the time that you
would usually you still get the same
task done this is because with less time
there is more akes and urgency so it
causes you to focus on only the things
that get the task complete whereas if I
gave myself 8 hours to write then i'
just end up on Discord chatting to
people or on my phone or singing it's
getting on in public it's known as
Parkinson's law and it's backed by
science so the next time you start
making a video set a time limit that
might be for ideation or writing or
editing you need to make sure it makes
you feel almost uncomfortable and
witness yourself achieved productivity
levels you didn't think were possible
always turn your email off cuz it's uh
you're just going to get the distracted
2 hours isn't that long uh where was I I
just distracted myself talking to you
moving us on to the next hack which I
recently discovered enabled me to write
faster in a more creative way and it
actually made me happier too and it's
why I'm currently sat in that chair
writing so let me explain how this
simple trick works I am a digital Nomad
that is basically a posh word for a
homeless man who lives in airbnbs each
month I move to a different one one
month I put my airb be and I walked in
and I started working on scripts but it
just felt like I was typing through
treeo I couldn't come up with any ideas
I struggling to string words together
and this went on for an entire month now
I just thought I was burnt out or tired
but I wasn't it come the end of the
month I had to move to another Airbnb
into the one that you can see on screen
right now and I started typing and it
was like the floodgates had opened it
was the easiest I've ever found making
videos and that's where I'm sat where
I'm sat right there that's not
comfortable posture always look after
your posture because I realized that the
environment you're in plays a massive
part in the ease of creativity and for
me in particular having a lot of of
natural light streaming into the room
totally transforms my ability and my
productivity and it's not just me
Roberto Blake recently tweeted something
similar so if you're feeling stuck try
writing outside or by a window or just
tidy your environment and you might just
find it changes everything fast let me
explain the next thing I wish I new soon
as fast as I can so I can go back to
writing this script but it's important
that I explain it and I stopped doing it
myself because it just stops videos
getting made but it comes at a bit of a
cost that concerns me so let me explain
look at this picture it looks great
right you'd probably hang it on your
wall well I would if I wasn't homeless
now let's compare to this picture it
looks great too right but which one do
you prefer the first one took 10 hours
to produce the second took 12 would you
pay more for this one than that one
probably not this is YouTube through and
through we spend our lives trying to
perfect our content but the truth is
often getting it to 80% is going to be
good enough to get results that final
20% we fraternize over often doesn't
have enough impact with our viewers to
be worth the effort and worse if you
consistently strive for what you believe
to be Perfection it wastes a ton of time
and it could actually just stop you
making videos and that is the whole
point of this game and let me tell you a
little secret in my most viewed video of
all time I'm out of focus I don't even
think anyone ever commented on it so
that's the strategy I'm going to be
using on this script and it kind of
scares me cuz I've not posted a video to
film booth for a while and I don't want
people to be like oh he's lost it
bringing us on to the next thing you'll
wish on you soona because if you can
just accept this to be true this happens
this happens and this happens and I know
it does cuz that's the data of people I
work with and I have hundreds of wins
all caused by the same change they all
made so I want you to imagine there's
this one skill you can learn to explode
on YouTube it won't just blow up your
channel but also your social media your
business it's going to help you find
editors writers it'll even land you more
dates I'm not even kidding you can use
it on Bumble tea and it's why I have no
matches too handsome for this stupid app
anyway it's also why in Hollywood when
they make 99% of films they don't give
actors a list of bullet points to just
riff and tell the entire story from
instead they write a script to ensure
that viewers are always 100% engaged and
invested cuz if they're not they get a
massive flob apart from the classic
French film from the 1920s that was a
bullet points shut up in the comments
you now YouTube's the same but here
writing scripts is 10 times more
powerful because when you practice Hooks
and setups and retention tactics you can
then use these in your social media
posts to get attention as well as your
marketing as well as your emails so
writing for educators is the most
powerful YouTube skill on the planet you
just have to get over the initial
learning curve and you will be on the
FasTrack road to successville Tennessee
oh it's got a match Julia from
successful Tennessee it's not real is it
Julia is not she's not real here's a
little tip of writing so what I'll do is
I'll write a few lines and I'll go back
and I'll just present them out loud like
I'm talking to you like he just went out
there and documented himself doing it
and the results were incredible you can
kind of hear it in your own voice and
then I'm always usually thinking at the
same time can I make this paragraph a
bit shorter can I make it simpler but
often what I'll do is I'll just write
the first version and then I'll go back
and then the second round where I'm
starting to edit it that's what I'm
thinking more dramatic words is this
entertaining is it informative and how
do I make this shorter and more to the
point and let's kind of it okay so the
next thing I wish I'd known sooner it
would have helped me post content more
often and make better videos that got
more views with less effort much less so
let me explain have you ever made a
video and you just kind of like rushed
it out you put way less effort and
thought into it and it absolutely took
off and outperformed all those other
higher effort videos you've made in the
past what most people do when this
happens is instantly tell themselves oh
good I don't have to put much work into
my future videos now the viewers want
that but the reason people think this
low effort video has worked so well is
incorrect now I realized what was
actually happening here when I went
through a bit of a growth Plateau so
years ago I blew up pretty fast and some
of you sexy Legends who have been
watching me for years you might remember
and then like most of the- moment
channels My Views suddenly slowed down
and I was kind of
like one day I was trying to find a
patent in all the biggest videos as to
why they done so well so that I could
try and make this comeback and I said to
someone all my best performing videos
were the easiest ideas I ever came up
with they practically wrote themselves
and that is when it clicked when coming
up with ideas or writing or editing the
best ideas are often the ones that come
to us with the least friction this is
why those low Foot videos people make do
really well because they went with the
most obvious idea and didn't over
complicate things and it worked so the
next time you get stuck anywhere on
YouTube just ask yourself this is this a
struggle because it just doesn't really
work and I'm trying to force it or
should I just go for something more
obvious and put that on the back burner
for another time but a word of warning
this doesn't mean make what you want you
still need to research and research
research and find the right videos to
make and understand your audience but
when you have that down trusting your
instincts could be your secret Source
but what if things get so tough you just
can't get unstuck so I'm halfway through
the time limit now and things have been
going pretty well but I've got to a
point where I've just kind of hit a
block I'm struggling to come up with a
way to make this more interesting so
that you guys will hit the like button
hit the like button hit the like
button but this next thing I wish I knew
sooner you're going to love because it's
going to get me out of this mess it's
going to get you out of overwhelmed too
and the best thing about it is you just
stop writing and the even better thing
about it is for me I get to go on one of
these there she is my baby these are the
best things about to buy so sometimes I
just fly around and buy on these things
at night when I'm Bor try and set like a
record for the time I'm getting around
the marina R today I'm going to try and
get a 112 to defeat Mark rley I've never
even seen a 113 if you get that
reference you need a comment here we go
112 typing a storm on the line the key
is to not kill anyone it's a bad idea to
kill people in the UAE ladies believe it
or not this is actually the hack flying
around on one of these and now I will
stop wasting time flying around on my
core scooter and I'll go back to explain
why you should do it too but first maybe
one more LP yeah move it bu you all
right stop here all right so I've wasted
about 10 minutes but every time I ever
get stuck writing or doing anything
creative now I simply stop go outside
get a bit of nature go for a walk 10
minutes later I come back and everything
just seems to have worked its way out
when we're too close to our content it's
very hard to see obvious answers
sometimes to that little break makes all
difference anyway I've got to get back
on with this script cuz time is ticking
the next thing I wish I knew sooner I
found very hard to come to terms with
but I can honestly say it Chang my life
and without this I'd have no following
or no business and those things built me
a pretty cool lifestyle where I can
travel the world and do whatever the
heck I want when I want and this change
happened because I embraced it and it
works like this if I told you not to put
your hand in the fire because it might
hurt versus don't put your hand in the
fire because it's going to melt your
fingers to the Bone and it's going to
cause you to scream in agony and it
might mean you can never swipe right
again which person are you going to
listen to on YouTube if you want your
viewers to pay attention you have to
make them realize why what you're about
to say is critical so they don't just
ignore you use your words to create a
feeling of urgency and pump up the
stakes of what will happen if they do
drift off I mean let's just rewind this
video and listen to what I said when I
set up the entire section of this
video but I can honestly say it changed
my life and without this I'd have no
following or no business and those
things built me a pretty cool lifestyle
where I can travel the world and do
whatever the heck I want when I want and
this change happened because I embraced
it and it works like this can you see
what I did there if you make it sound
like they're going to get an average
result or just solve an average problem
you're going to get an average response
okay there's the time up is it as
refined as I'd like no is it as funny as
I like not really is it a bit too long
yes is there submits I probably would
have just completely cut out definitely
but there are some fun moments in there
and there was one thing that I've done
where about 18 months ago I came up with
the idea for it and I finally found a
place to put it into a video I think
you're going to like it but before I
reveal it you I just want to hit you
with one more thing I wish I'd knew
sooner because this is a real Channel
killer and sadly it's called by people
like you so let me explain so when I
broke out on YouTube every video got the
same handful of comment Ed this editing
is too fast and you know what they were
right I actually thought it was too fast
too but the thing is the channel was
growing faster than ever so what am I
supposed to do listen to the five or six
people saying it's too fast or the
hundreds of thousands who were saying
nothing in fact all they were doing was
watching and growing the channel at a
pretty amazing rate so I just stuck to
it work when you're a smaller channel in
particular it feels like one comment
represents your entire audience so the
trap to avoid here is not to make
decisions based just on these people
everyone has different tastes things are
subjective so just keep that in mind now
if you get loads of comments saying the
same thing there probably a sign but be
careful because if you make a change
based on them only you might actually
wreck the thing your viewers loved in
the first place so now it's time to
reveal the video that I wrote in Just 2
hours so that you can judge Parkinson's
law for yourself but first there's just
one other small issue so by sharing all
of this stuff that I wish I'd known
sooner with you I'm hoping I can
FasTrack you and stop you making
mistakes that took me years to work out
the thing is these are only a small
selection of them so you need to make
sure you stop making these and a handful
of others too but the good news is this
video here is going to teach you what
those things are and stop you making
some of the biggest mistakes on YouTube
but Ed how do we watch the video you
wrote as fast as you could well you just
[Music]
did bom bom